[DOCS] DOC-619 top navigation bar update (#9012)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/oss/get_started/get_started_with_gx_and_databricks.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Get started with GX and Databricks'
title: Get started with Great Expectations and Databricks
---

import Prerequisites from '@site/docs/components/_prerequisites.jsx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import TechnicalTag from '@site/docs/reference/learn/term_tags/_tag.mdx';

Use the information provided here to learn how you can use Great Expectations (GX) with [Databricks](https://databricks.com/).

To use GX with Databricks, you'll complete the following tasks:

- Load data
- Instantiate a <TechnicalTag tag="data_context" text="Data Context" />
- Create a <TechnicalTag tag="datasource" text="Data Source" /> and a <TechnicalTag tag="data_asset" text="Data Asset" />
- Create an <TechnicalTag tag="expectation_suite" text="Expectation Suite" />
- Validate data using a <TechnicalTag tag="checkpoint" text="Checkpoint" />

> The information provided here is intended to get you up and running quickly. To validate files stored in the DBFS, select the **File** tab. If you have an existing Spark DataFrame loaded, select one of the **DataFrame** tabs. See the specific integration guides if you're using a different file store such as Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), or Microsoft Azure Blob Storage (ABS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information provided here is intended to get you started quickly. To validate files stored in the DBFS, select the **File** tab. If you have an existing Spark DataFrame loaded, select one of the **DataFrame** tabs. See the specific integration guides if you're using a different file store, such as Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), or Microsoft Azure Blob Storage (ABS).
```

> The full code used in the following examples is available on GitHub:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complete code used in the following examples is available on GitHub:
```

- [databricks_deployment_patterns_file_python_configs.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/tests/integration/docusaurus/deployment_patterns/databricks_deployment_patterns_file_python_configs.py)

- [databricks_deployment_patterns_dataframe_python_configs.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/tests/integration/docusaurus/deployment_patterns/databricks_deployment_patterns_dataframe_python_configs.py)

## Prerequisites

<Prerequisites>

> - A complete Databricks setup including a running Databricks cluster with an attached notebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A complete Databricks setup, including a running Databricks cluster with an attached notebook
```

- Access to [DBFS](https://docs.databricks.com/dbfs/index.html)

</Prerequisites>

## Install GX

1. Run the following command in your notebook to install GX as a notebook-scoped library:

    ```bash
    %pip install great-expectations
    ```

  A notebook-scoped library is a custom Python environment that is specific to a notebook. You can also install a library at the cluster or workspace level. See [Databricks Libraries](https://docs.databricks.com/data/databricks-file-system.html).

2. Run the following command to import the Python configurations you'll use in the following steps:

  ```python name="tests/integration/docusaurus/deployment_patterns/databricks_deployment_patterns_file_python_configs.py imports"
  ```

## Set up GX

To avoid configuring external resources, you'll use the [Databricks File System (DBFS)](https://docs.databricks.com/data/databricks-file-system.html) for your Metadata Stores and <TechnicalTag tag="data_docs" text="Data Docs"/> store.

> DBFS is a distributed file system mounted in a Databricks workspace and available on Databricks clusters. Files on DBFS can be written and read as if they were on a local filesystem, just by <a href="https://docs.databricks.com/data/databricks-file-system.html#local-file-apis">adding the /dbfs/ prefix to the path</a>. It is also persisted to object storage, so you won’t lose data after you terminate a cluster. See the Databricks documentation for best practices including mounting object stores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DBFS is a distributed file system mounted in a Databricks workspace and available on Databricks clusters. Files on DBFS can be written and read as if they were on a local filesystem by <a href="https://docs.databricks.com/data/databricks-file-system.html#local-file-apis">adding the /dbfs/ prefix to the path</a>. It also persists in object storage, so you won’t lose data after terminating a cluster. See the Databricks documentation for best practices, including mounting object stores.
```
